well howdy they're gonna know people
it's Bo again so tonight we're going to
talk about upton sinclair quad of
americans just went we're forced to read
in high school here for those overseas
who's an American author very prolific
wrote almost a hundred bucks won the
Pulitzer Prize for fiction
Time magazine described him as having
every gift
except for humor and silence it's funny
that he wrote won the Pulitzer Prize for
fiction because most of his books are
journalism thinly disguised is fiction
because his books were written in that
manner a lot of his journalism got out
got further had more of an impact a lot
of his books had wide-ranging impact in
the United States the brass check is one
of his more famous ones and it is widely
credited as being the catalyst for the
code of ethics for journalists the first
one in the u.s. the one most people are
forced to read in high school is the
jungle it was written in 1906 about the
meatpacking industry a lot of his books
dealt with working conditions the coal
industry the auto industry everything
but this one dealt with the meatpacking
industry and it talked about how the
speed of the line that the pork moves
down how do I do with whether or not it
was clean flying speeds
talked about how the animals were
sometimes covered in things you don't
want your food covered in and it created
an outcry shortly thereafter the Pure
Food and Drug Act was passed shortly
after that the Meat Inspection Act Upton
Sinclair is widely credited as being a
driving force behind that because of his
book it's when slaughterhouses started
getting policed a little more now fast
forward to today this week the USDA is
removing prohibitions on line speed
they're going to let slaughterhouses
self-police again yeah these are not
companies that are socially responsible
they actually have a long track record
of doing things that are let's just say
not in the best interest of consumers
and society in general now it would be
easy to blame this on Trump and there is
a lot of this that it has is his fault
because it is going through under him
however it should be noted in the
interest of fairness the industry has
been lobbying for this for a very long
time I know it was going on during under
Obama I think it was even going on under
Bush they've been trying for this for a
long time because well it's gonna make
it more profitable I want you to think
about that it's going to be more
profitable for them to staff the safety
inspectors than it is for the government
to do it they're gonna have to pay
people to do this but it's gonna be more
profitable oh forgot to tell you they
get to develop their own standards
in a lot of cases basically foodborne
illness from pork it's a matter of Todd
that just something you might want to be
aware of there was a pilot program that
tested this out almost everybody that
was involved with it that spoke out said
that it was just an utter failure it was
an utter failure but we're going ahead
with it anyway it's something that we
might want to keep in mind you know in
my ideal world yeah companies like this
would police themselves but in my ideal
world they would police themselves and
we know that isn't what's going to
happen here because it's going to be
cheaper to settle the lawsuits than it
is to pay employees anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good night